   #Medium alternate

   Sitemap

   Open in app

   (BUTTON) Sign up

   Sign in
   Medium Logo
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Get app
   Write
   Search

   (BUTTON) Sign up

   Sign in
   (BUTTON)
   Unknown user

   (BUTTON)
    1. 1: The key distinction: DARK WEB OSINT vs DARKINT
    2. A quick vocabulary
    3. 2: The source landscape
    4. Clearnet gateways: no Tor required
    5. A Perfect method.
    6. Sources that need Tor Browser (DARKINT PROCESS)
    7. 3: Build a safe research environment
    8. Environment checklist
    9. A note on VPNs
   10. Four operating rules
   11. 4: Legal and ethical guardrails
   12. Generally acceptable
   13. Off limits
   14. Be careful with leaked personal data
   15. 5: Hands-on walkthrough: a defensive exposure investigation
   16. Principles
   17. Step 0: Scope, authorization and case setup
   18. Step 1: Discovery with Ahmia (clearnet)
   19. Step 2: Check ransomware leak postings
   20. Step 3: Credential and breach exposure (your own domain only)
   21. Step 4: Correlate with your own telemetry
   22. Step 5: Verify at the source (only if justified)
   23. Step 6: Preserve evidence
         1. Step 7: Analyze and grade
         2. Step 8: Report and recommend
         3. Worked outcome for Acme (illustrative)
         4. Limitations
         5. Common mistakes
         6. Conclusion

   Azutech

Azutech

   Threat Intel analyst

   Osint
   (BUTTON)
   Dark Web Search
   (BUTTON)

Dark Web OSINT: A Practitioner’s Guide to Safe, Legal Hidden-Service
Intelligence

   Azutech
   Azutech
   11 min read
   ·
   1 day ago

   --
   (BUTTON)

   1
   (BUTTON)

   Listen
   (BUTTON)

   Share
   Press enter or click to view image in full size

   You don’t need to open a single .onion link to monitor the dark web.
   Here is the process, the guardrails, and a hands-on walkthrough.

   According to IBM’s 2025 Cost of a Data Breach study, the average
   organization takes 181 days to identify a breach and another 60 days to
   contain it. That is 241 days in which an attacker may hold your
   credentials, your data, or both.

   Often, the evidence is sitting in public view the whole time: a
   stealer-log listing, a name on a ransomware leak site, a forum post
   advertising access to a company’s network. It just lives in a corner of
   the internet most defenders never look at.

   This article is about looking there safely, legally, and
   professionally. You will learn how to separate dark web OSINT from the
   riskier practice of direct access, how to build a defensible process,
   and how to run a complete exposure investigation step by step.

     Scope. This guide is written for defenders: threat-intelligence
     analysts, SOC teams, fraud and brand-protection investigators,
     journalists. It covers assessing exposure of an organization you own
     or are authorized to assess. It does not cover buying anything,
     engaging criminals, or accessing illegal material, and it
     deliberately does not list marketplaces.

1: The key distinction: DARK WEB OSINT vs DARKINT

   Most confusion in this field comes from one blurred line.

   Dark web OSINT means collecting intelligence from public or indexed
   sources, including dark-web data that has already been surfaced on the
   regular internet. You use an ordinary browser, aggregators and APIs.

   DARKINT means directly accessing hidden services such as onion forums,
   leak sites and marketplaces, using Tor in an isolated environment. It
   carries higher operational and legal risk and needs training,
   infrastructure and approval.

   Many tools sold as “dark web OSINT” are really DARKINT platforms,
   because they crawl onion services from inside Tor and show you the
   results. That can be perfectly fine, but you should know which activity
   you are doing, because it decides which controls apply.

     Rule of thumb: monitor continuously with clearnet OSINT, and
     escalate to DARKINT only when a specific question can’t be answered
     any other way.

A quick vocabulary

     * Surface web: content that mainstream search engines index.
     * Deep web: content behind logins or paywalls, such as webmail and
       banking portals. Mostly mundane.
     * Dark web: overlay networks that need special software. The best
       known is Tor, where services use 56-character .onion addresses that
       don't resolve through normal DNS and aren't indexed by mainstream
       search engines.

   Not everything on Tor is criminal activities. News organizations,
   whistleblower systems and privacy tools all operate there. The risk
   comes from the content around you, not from the network itself.

2: The source landscape

Clearnet gateways: no Tor required

   These cover most routine monitoring.
     * Ahmia (ahmia.fi). A search engine for publicly crawlable onion
       services, open-source and created by researcher Juha Nurmi. It
       filters abuse material, and since 2023 it has also restricted
       sexually related searches after research showed a significant share
       of Tor searches were looking for abuse content. Coverage is partial
       and can be stale.
     * Intelligence X (intelx.io). Searches leaks, pastes and darknet data
       by selector such as email, domain, IP or crypto address. The free
       tier is limited, so read the terms of use.
     * ransomware.live. A free, clearnet view of ransomware leak-site
       postings, with group profiles, statistics and an API. Every entry
       is an attacker claim, not a confirmed breach.
     * Have I Been Pwned. Breach exposure by email or domain. Domain
       search requires proving you control the domain.
     * ExoneraTor (Tor Project). Tells you whether an IP address was a Tor
       relay on a given date, useful when triaging logins in your own
       logs.

A Perfect method.

   Ad-hoc browsing produces anecdotes. Professional work follows the
   intelligence cycle:
    1. Direction. Define Priority Intelligence Requirements (PIRs): “Are
       our domains in recent stealer-log or breach datasets?” “Has our
       company or a critical supplier been named by a ransomware group?”
    2. Collection. Gather from the sources above using documented queries.
    3. Processing. Normalize, de-duplicate, timestamp (UTC).
    4. Analysis. Verify, correlate with internal telemetry, grade
       confidence.
    5. Dissemination. Report to the right audience with sharing
       restrictions applied.
    6. Feedback. Did the report change a decision? Refine your questions.

   A useful habit: write every PIR as a question with a decision attached.
   “If X is true, we will do Y.”

Sources that need Tor Browser (DARKINT PROCESS)

   Onion-native search engines (some apply no content filtering at all),
   the original ransomware leak sites for verifying a claim at its source,
   and closed or semi-closed forums.

   For most defensive work you can skip these by relying on aggregators
   that already capture leak-site postings, and on vetted commercial
   threat-intelligence providers if your budget allows.

3: Build a safe research environment

   Assume three things: hostile sites are designed to attack visitors,
   some operators watch and fingerprint visitors, and anything done under
   your real identity can link back to you or your employer.

Environment checklist

     * Isolation. Use a dedicated virtual machine with a clean snapshot,
       no shared clipboard and no shared folders, or boot Tails from USB.
       Never use your daily machine.
     * Browser. Official Tor Browser from torproject.org only. Keep it
       updated and don’t install extensions.
     * Identity separation. No personal or corporate accounts, no
       password-manager autofill, no reused usernames.
     * Snapshots. Revert to the clean snapshot after each session. Treat
       the VM as disposable.
     * Downloads. Don’t download or open files from onion services. If a
       sample must be handled, do it only in a separate offline
       malware-analysis sandbox under policy.
     * Hardening. Keep the host and hypervisor patched and protected. A
       research VM that escapes its sandbox turns an investigation into an
       incident.
     * Notes. Keep timestamped (UTC) notes of every URL and the reason you
       visited it.

A note on VPNs

   Many guides tell you to stack a VPN with Tor. The Tor Project’s own
   advice is more cautious: combining them can reduce anonymity or weaken
   Tor’s protections if set up badly, so it recommends against it unless
   you are an advanced user who understands both layers. If your
   organization requires a VPN for policy reasons, treat it as a
   deliberate design decision, document it, and test it.

Four operating rules

    1. Look, don’t touch. No registrations, logins, messages, purchases or
       form submissions.
    2. One purpose per session. Know your question before you open the
       browser.
    3. Capture as you go. Evidence is much harder to reconstruct
       afterward.
    4. Decide your stop conditions in advance: illegal content, threats to
       life, or anything that looks like a crime in progress.

4: Legal and ethical guardrails

   Laws vary by country, and this is orientation rather than legal advice.
   Involve counsel before any work that touches third-party personal data
   or law-enforcement matters.

Generally acceptable

     * Using Tor and visiting onion services is lawful in most places.
     * Reading publicly accessible pages and indexes for defensive
       purposes is accepted practice.
     * Checking breach data for assets you own or are contracted to
       protect is standard.

Off limits

     * Buying illicit goods, stolen data or access.
     * Downloading or keeping illegal content. If you ever encounter child
       sexual abuse material, stop, do not capture it, and report it to
       the proper authority or hotline.
     * Logging in to criminal infrastructure, using fake identities, or
       infiltrating groups without legal authorization.
     * Communicating or negotiating with threat actors outside a formal
       incident-response engagement.
     * Using leaked credentials to log in to anyone’s systems, even “just
       to test.”

Be careful with leaked personal data

   Leak-site dumps often contain other people’s personal information.
   Downloading or processing it can trigger data-protection obligations in
   its own right. Default to not downloading full datasets. Work from
   metadata, file listings, samples on the claim page, and your own
   authorized credential checks.

5: Hands-on walkthrough: a defensive exposure investigation

   Are We Exposed? A Defensive Dark-Web Investigation, Step by Step

   A practical walkthrough for CTI analysts who need to answer the CISO’s
   question without touching anything they shouldn’t.

   All names, domains and data are fictional. Written October 2026. Tool
   features, endpoints, pricing and limits change, so check each tool’s
   current documentation before running anything.

   Sooner or later a CISO asks: “Are we showing up on the dark web?”
   Answering honestly takes a disciplined process, not quickly browse
   through Tor. This walkthrough follows a fictional company, Acme
   Logistics (acmelogistics.example), using mostly clearnet sources and
   escalating to dark-web access only when a finding justifies it.

Principles

    1. Authorization first. Assess only assets your organization owns.
    2. Aggregators before the source. Most questions can be answered
       without opening a leak site.
    3. A claim is not a breach. Treat every posting as unverified until
       your own telemetry corroborates it.
    4. Evidence or it didn’t happen. Timestamp, hash and log everything.

Step 0: Scope, authorization and case setup

   Get written authorization listing in-scope domains, brand names and who
   receives the report. Then create the case folder:

   bash
mkdir -p case-2026-10-acme/{screens,exports,notes}
cd case-2026-10-acme
date -u +"%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ" > notes/case-opened-utc.txt

   Build your selector list:
     * Domains: acmelogistics.example, acme-logistics-portal.example
     * Brand strings: “Acme Logistics”, “AcmeLog”
     * Suppliers: only if explicitly in scope
     * Email pattern: the company domain only, never employees’ personal
       data

Step 1: Discovery with Ahmia (clearnet)

    1. Open https://ahmia.fi in a normal browser.
    2. Search each selector separately, in quotation marks.
    3. Record the title, onion address, snippet and date seen.
    4. Do not visit the onion links.

   Zero results does not mean you are clear. It means Ahmia found nothing.

Step 2: Check ransomware leak postings

    1. Open ransomware.live and use its Search page for each selector. It
       supports a website filter, so use that for domains.
    2. On a hit, record the group, claimed attack date, discovery date,
       sector, country, whether a screenshot exists, and any flags the
       record shows, such as multiple groups claiming the same victim.
    3. Screenshot the record into screens/.

   This is an attacker’s public claim, not a confirmed breach.

   Optional automation. The site publishes an API. This script checks your
   keywords and saves each response with a UTC timestamp. Confirm the
   endpoint path and rate limits in the current API documentation first.

   python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
"""Keyword check against ransomware.live. Verify endpoint in docs first."""
import json, time, datetime, pathlib, requests
from urllib.parse import quote
KEYWORDS = ["acmelogistics", "Acme Logistics"]
BASE = "https://api.ransomware.live/v2"   # confirm path in API docs
HEADERS = {"User-Agent": "acme-cti-monitor/1.0 (soc@acmelogistics.example)"}
out = pathlib.Path("exports"); out.mkdir(exist_ok=True)
for kw in KEYWORDS:
    stamp = datetime.datetime.now(datetime.timezone.utc).strftime("%Y%m%dT%H%M%S
Z")
    path = out / f"ransomwarelive_{kw.replace(' ', '_')}_{stamp}.json"
    try:
        r = requests.get(f"{BASE}/searchvictims/{quote(kw)}", headers=HEADERS, t
imeout=30)
        try:
            body = r.json()
        except ValueError:
            body = r.text
        record = {"status": r.status_code, "body": body}
    except requests.RequestException as e:
        record = {"status": None, "error": str(e)}
    path.write_text(json.dumps(record, indent=2))
    print(kw, "->", record.get("status"), "->", path)
    time.sleep(2)   # stay polite

   Run it on a schedule, diff the results, and identify yourself in the
   User-Agent.

Step 3: Credential and breach exposure (your own domain only)

   Check each service’s current access tier and pricing before relying on
   it.
     * Have I Been Pwned: verify ownership of your domain, then run a
       domain search.
     * Intelligence X: search the domain selector and review result
       metadata (source type, date). Don’t bulk-download datasets
       containing third-party personal data.

   For each exposed account, record the breach or source, the date, the
   data types (password, hash, token) and whether it comes from a stealer
   log. Stealer logs can contain live session cookies and are far more
   urgent than an old breach list.

   Priority
     * Critical: recent stealer-log entry for an active employee or admin.
       Revoke sessions and reset credentials now.
     * High: older breach with password reuse at work. Force a reset and
       check MFA.
     * Low: old breach, unique credentials, MFA enforced. Note it and keep
       monitoring.

Step 4: Correlate with your own telemetry

    1. Pull authentication logs for the exposed accounts around the
       exposure date, normalized to UTC.
    2. Look for unusual geographies, new devices and anonymizing
       infrastructure.
    3. For suspicious IPs, check ExoneraTor (IP plus date) and the Tor
       Project’s exit list, since a relay’s listed address can differ from
       its exit address.

   A Tor match doesn’t prove malice, but a successful login to a corporate
   account from a Tor IP deserves immediate review.

Step 5: Verify at the source (only if justified)

   Escalate only when a serious claim can’t be assessed from aggregator
   data.

   Controls before you start
     * Written approval from your manager and legal counsel.
     * A dedicated VM or Tails, never your daily workstation, with shared
       folders and clipboard disabled.
     * No personal or corporate accounts logged in, no cryptocurrency
       wallets, no document viewers.
     * Tor Browser at its Safest security level, and a snapshot taken
       beforehand.

   Procedure
    1. Confirm Tor is working.
    2. Open only the specific onion URL recorded from the aggregator.
       Don’t browse around.
    3. Capture a full-page screenshot, the URL, the page title and the UTC
       time.
    4. Don’t click downloads, register, or message anyone.
    5. Close the session and revert the snapshot.

   Stop condition. If you encounter illegal content, such as child
   exploitation material, stop immediately, close the session, don’t
   capture it, and report to legal counsel, who will advise on
   law-enforcement reporting.

Step 6: Preserve evidence

   bash
cd case-2026-10-acme
find screens exports -type f -print0 | sort -z | xargs -0 sha256sum > notes/hash
es.sha256
# Verify later
sha256sum -c notes/hashes.sha256

   The evidence log in notes/ is a working document and is deliberately
   not hashed. Re-hash screens/ and exports/ whenever you add evidence,
   and keep a separate copy of hashes.sha256, for example attached to the
   case ticket.

   Log every item:
Item ID:          E-001
Description:      Screenshot of ransomware.live search for "Acme Logistics"
Source/URL:       (as recorded)
Collected by:     (analyst name)
Collected (UTC):  2026-10-06T09:14:22Z
Method:           Browser screenshot, clearnet
SHA-256:          (hash)
Storage path:     screens/E-001.png
Notes:            No match

   Tools like Hunchly can automate hashing and timestamping, but a
   disciplined manual process is just as valid.

Step 7: Analyze and grade

   For each finding ask: How reliable is the source? Is it corroborated?
   How recent is it? What could an attacker do with it? Grade source
   reliability A to F and information credibility 1 to 6 (the Admiralty
   system), and state your confidence as low, moderate or high.

Step 8: Report and recommend

     * Force resets and session revocation for exposed accounts.
     * Enforce phishing-resistant MFA.
     * Hunt for infostealer infection on affected endpoints.
     * Rotate any exposed tokens or API keys.
     * Bring in legal and incident response if a ransomware claim looks
       credible.
     * Add your selectors to continuous monitoring.

   So after all this, what you do not do: contact the threat actor, pay
   anything, download the “proof” package, or announce a breach before
   incident response and legal have assessed it.

Worked outcome for Acme (illustrative)

     * Ahmia: one hit for “AcmeLog”, a forum post mentioning a phishing
       kit. No leaked content. Grade C/3.
     * ransomware.live: no match for domain or brand.
     * HIBP: four accounts in a 2019 breach, including one admin with a
       reused password. One employee appears in a stealer log from three
       weeks ago.
     * Telemetry: the stealer-log account had a successful login from an
       unfamiliar country ten days ago, from an IP on the Tor exit list.
       Corroborated.
     * Source verification: not justified.

   Conclusion for the CISO: No ransomware claim against Acme was found.
   The stealer-log employee is critical: revoke sessions, reset
   credentials, reimage the endpoint and open an IR case. The 2019
   accounts are high: force resets and confirm MFA, admin first.

Limitations

   This method can’t see closed forums, invite-only markets or private
   Telegram channels. Aggregators lag behind real postings, and breach
   datasets are incomplete. A clean result lowers risk but never proves
   absence.

Common mistakes

     * Browsing from a personal or corporate device. Exposes you and your
       employer. Use a dedicated VM or Tails.
     * Treating a claim as confirmed. Causes false alarms and reputational
       damage. Corroborate with telemetry.
     * Downloading leaked data “to check it.” Creates legal exposure and
       malware risk. Work from metadata and authorized checks.
     * No timestamps or hashes. Evidence gets challenged. Build capture
       discipline from minute one.
     * Reusing real accounts or usernames. Risks deanonymization. Keep
       strict identity separation.
     * Following unverified link lists. Leads to scams, malware and
       honeypots.
     * One-off checks. Exposure often appears after your search. Schedule
       recurring queries.
     * Stacking tools you don’t fully understand. Can reduce anonymity.
       Follow Tor Project guidance and test your setup.

Conclusion

   Dark web OSINT is less about daring access and more about disciplined
   process. The highest-value work, tracking ransomware claims, watching
   for credential exposure and spotting brand abuse, can be done largely
   through clearnet gateways, with Tor-based access held in reserve for
   tightly controlled verification.

   Whichever route you take, the principles stay the same: stay inside
   legal and ethical boundaries, isolate your environment, capture
   evidence that will withstand challenge, grade your confidence honestly,
   and turn findings into decisions.

   Start small. Define three PIRs, write down your selectors, set up one
   automated check, and review the results weekly. Move into DARKINT only
   when a clear question demands it.

   If this was useful, follow for more practical OSINT and
   threat-intelligence guides, and tell me in the comments which section
   you’d like expanded.
   Osint
   (BUTTON)
   Dark Web Search
   (BUTTON)

   --

   --
   (BUTTON)

   1
   (BUTTON)
   Azutech
   Azutech

Written by Azutech

   31 followers
   ·7 following

   Threat Intel analyst

   Help

   Status

   About

   Careers

   Press

   Blog

   Store

   Privacy

   Rules

   Terms

   Text to speech
